So, a good example of playing the source
compression game in the time domain
is ADPCM.
It stands for
adaptive delta pulse code modulation.
So, when you consider
sampling signals critically,
that is exactly at the Nyquist
rate of Two times FSphere,
F, as is the maximum frequency component.
It is possible that when
xn is at its positive peak,
and immediately the next
sample is a negative p,
because you're sampling
at the maximum frequency.
And, if you take the difference of these
two neighboring samples, you will have
twice the value of peak to peak
variation compared to Excel itself.
But we rarely use critical sampling.
There is always some over
sampling because of the cost of
really sharp low pass filters.
And also, there is a lot of energy.
Perceptually important information
in the low frequencies.
Given this, we can use delta PCL.
That is the just look at the difference
between neighboring samples.
And we code them using instead
of just on signal exit.
An extension of the DPCM,
that works really well in practice,
is to actually adapt the quantization
levels based on the signal.
This is what is shown in the figure here.
It is used in like
which is part of etc.
The adaptation scheme
here is quite clever.
So, I want you to follow
me very closely here.
Looking at the encoder blocks clockwise,
first we predict the current sample.
Instead of using the real pass sample,
we predict
x of n minus 1 using
signals before x of n.
To predict the signal and
compute the error, that uses the error EN.
So, we quantize EN using
an adaptive quantizer than actually
uses the range of EN to control
it's rate of adaptation.
This is actually what we
sent to the receiver.
Now, we use the decoder structure inside
the encoder to predict the next sample.
So, we do not use the actual error for
this but
we a quantized version e hat n.
So, the adaptive predictor
has A buffer inside,
which has actually stored the samples
that we have previously predicted.
So, so far,
everything in this feedback loop
is actually what is
available at the receiver.
So, using this information,
we predict the next sample for
computing the next error to e(n).
The nice thing here is that
the decoder shown below
does exactly the same thing at the
receiver and as part of the encoder here.
The encoder has an embedded decoder.
This structure gives us the ability
to do backward adaptation.
There is no need to send any site
information to the receiver and
this can operate at 16
kilobits per sample.
24, 32 and 40 kilobits per second,
compared to 8 bits per sample.
So, we are saving significant
channel bandwidth.
The only issue about this
that we will see later is
because it is based on prediction.
If there is an error in the channel
there is no synchronization
between the decoder and
the encoder that has the decoder.
Because the decoder here does not
know what information was lost.
So, it's little bit fragile to channel
errors but still it's a great coder.